CoreRequirements.md, before:

Authors: Luke Carlson, Mike Browne

## Introduction
Telugu is a language with roots in several southeastern provinces in India. Though it is commonly written using a roman alphabet (with the assistance of pronunciation symbols) its original script is roughly ~900 years old and is decended from the phoenician and aramaic alphabets. The language itself has Dravidian roots, like most of its bretheren in southern India.

## Syntax and Morphology


## Speakers

Telugu is one of the twenty-two national languages of India and is the third most-popular language in the country. It's the language most commonly spoken in the Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Yanam regions of India which are located in the southeast, bordering the Indian Ocean (see: http://bit.ly/1agopKx). In India alone, there are roughly seventy-four million native speakers leaving an estimated one million native speakers scattered around the globe (Canada and the US are home to two large populations of these people). The individuals located outside of India are most likely to be bi-lingual with either English or French being the two most commonly spoken second languages. Within India, it's comparatively more likely that a Telugu speaker only knows Telugu. If they are bi-lingual, they're likely to know another Hindi or English. As for a map of the worldwide distribution of Telugu speakers, we've included the link above to a outdated positioning of the language within India. As a vast majority of speakers are located in India (those who are not have moved from the country), there aren't any maps of Telugu speakers outside of India.

## Writing System

Telugu is written in Telugu script, a beautiful curving alphabet that is ~900 years old. Currently, most speakers write/read a modernized version of the script which was standardized in the second half of the 20th century. Because of this, modern speakers don't understand the original Telugu script. There's a small Indian population at Penn that is fluent in Telugu, but none of them can read the original Telugu script.

The script reads left to right then downward on the page like English. With the help of keyboards, online converters, and other internet tools, anyone with access to the internet can write Telugu script. The plethora of online resources in Telugu script backs this up - there are several periodicals written in the original script below.
 - Andhra Bhoomi
  - Leading Telugu daily newspaper distributed in Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, and Nellore
  - Link: http://www.andhrabhoomi.net/
 - Andhra Jyothy
  - Popular Telugu newspaper published in the Andhra Pradesh region
  - Link: http://www.andhrajyothy.com/
 - Suryaa
  - Another popoular Telugu newspaper published in the Andhra Pradesh region
  - Link: http://www.suryaa.com/

## Machine Translation Systems

There are a minimal number of machine translation systems for Telugu. The largest is Google, which has incorporated Telugu into their translation site and also has a beta transliteration program. For example, the sentence "this is a sentence" gets translated as దీనిని వాక్యం ఉందిand transliterated as Dīnini vākyaṁ .

There exists a few machine translation papers on Telugu. The first one is a masters thesis on rules for translation/literation, the second has to do with sentence token segmentation, and the third invovles part of speech tagging.

(2012) R.SRIBADRI NARAYANAN: English-Telugu Rule Based Machine Translation system. http://nlp.amrita.edu:8080/project/mhrd/ms/Telugu/Final_Thesis.pdf

(2012) Loganathan Ramasamy, Zdeněk Žabokrtský, & Sowmya Vajjala: The study of effect of length in morphological segmentation of agglutinative languages. [ACL 2012] Proceedings of the First Workshop on Multilingual Modeling, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012; pp.18-24.

(2011) Siva Reddy & Serge Sharoff: Cross-language POS taggers (and other tools) for Indian languages: an experiment with Kannada using Telugu resources. [IJCNLP 2011] Proceedings of the 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, Chiang Mai, Thailand, November 8-13, 2011; pp.11-19

Commit message:

Start working on Syntax/Morphology section

CoreRequirements.md, after:

Authors: Luke Carlson, Mike Browne

## Introduction
Telugu is a language with roots in several southeastern provinces in India. Though it is commonly written using a roman alphabet (with the assistance of pronunciation symbols) its original script is roughly ~900 years old and is decended from the phoenician and aramaic alphabets. The language itself has Dravidian roots, like most of its bretheren in southern India.

## Syntax and Morphology

 - Order of Elements
  - Subject Object Verb (SOV): Telugu's ordering of the subject, verb, and object is different from English, using an SOV ordering instead of an SVO ordering.
  - Adjective Placement: Adjectives are placed before the noun or pronoun they modify (the opposite of French and other romance languages). For example, the phrase big dog = pedda kukka = పెద్ద కుక్క where dog = kukka = కుక్క and big = pedda = పెద్ద.
  - Adverb Placement:
 - Word Order
  -
 - Interactional Morphology
 - Cases & Genders
  - Masculine:
  - Feminine:
  - Neutral:
 - Pronouns & Politeness
  - Personal Pronouns:
  - Infinite Pronouns:
  - Relative Pronouns:
  - Reflexive Pronouns:


## Speakers

Telugu is one of the twenty-two national languages of India and is the third most-popular language in the country. It's the language most commonly spoken in the Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Yanam regions of India which are located in the southeast, bordering the Indian Ocean (see: http://bit.ly/1agopKx). In India alone, there are roughly seventy-four million native speakers leaving an estimated one million native speakers scattered around the globe (Canada and the US are home to two large populations of these people). The individuals located outside of India are most likely to be bi-lingual with either English or French being the two most commonly spoken second languages. Within India, it's comparatively more likely that a Telugu speaker only knows Telugu. If they are bi-lingual, they're likely to know either Hindi or English. As for a map of the worldwide distribution of Telugu speakers, we've included the link above to a outdated positioning of the language within India. As a vast majority of speakers are located in India (those who are not have moved from the country), there aren't any maps of Telugu speakers outside of India.

## Writing System

Telugu is written in Telugu script, a beautiful curving alphabet that is ~900 years old. Currently, most speakers write/read a modernized version of the script which was standardized in the second half of the 20th century. Because of this, modern speakers don't understand the original Telugu script. There's a small Indian population at Penn that is fluent in Telugu, but none of them can read the original Telugu script.

The script reads left to right then downward on the page like English. With the help of keyboards, online converters, and other internet tools, anyone with access to the internet can write Telugu script. The plethora of online resources in Telugu script backs this up - there are several periodicals written in the original script below.
 - Andhra Bhoomi
  - Leading Telugu daily newspaper distributed in Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, and Nellore
  - Link: http://www.andhrabhoomi.net/
 - Andhra Jyothy
  - Popular Telugu newspaper published in the Andhra Pradesh region
  - Link: http://www.andhrajyothy.com/
 - Suryaa
  - Another popoular Telugu newspaper published in the Andhra Pradesh region
  - Link: http://www.suryaa.com/

## Machine Translation Systems

There are a minimal number of machine translation systems for Telugu. The largest is Google, which has incorporated Telugu into their translation site and also has a beta transliteration program. For example, the sentence "this is a sentence" gets translated as దీనిని వాక్యం ఉందిand transliterated as Dīnini vākyaṁ .

There exists a few machine translation papers on Telugu. The first one is a masters thesis on rules for translation/literation, the second has to do with sentence token segmentation, and the third invovles part of speech tagging.

(2012) R.SRIBADRI NARAYANAN: English-Telugu Rule Based Machine Translation system. http://nlp.amrita.edu:8080/project/mhrd/ms/Telugu/Final_Thesis.pdf

(2012) Loganathan Ramasamy, Zdeněk Žabokrtský, & Sowmya Vajjala: The study of effect of length in morphological segmentation of agglutinative languages. [ACL 2012] Proceedings of the First Workshop on Multilingual Modeling, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012; pp.18-24.

(2011) Siva Reddy & Serge Sharoff: Cross-language POS taggers (and other tools) for Indian languages: an experiment with Kannada using Telugu resources. [IJCNLP 2011] Proceedings of the 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, Chiang Mai, Thailand, November 8-13, 2011; pp.11-19
